# What is provisioning?

Provisioning is the process of setting up IT infrastructure. It can also
refer to the steps required to manage access to data and resources, and
make them available to users and systems. Provisioning is not the same
thing as configuration, but they are both steps in the deployment
process. Once something has been provisioned, the next step is
configuration.

# Types of provisioning

## Server provisioning

Server provisioning is the process of setting up a server to be used in
a network based on required resources.

Provisioning can encompass all of the operations needed to create a new
machine and bring it to a working state, and includes defining the
desired state of the system.

Server provisioning includes setting up the physical hardware in a
datacenter, installing and configuring software, including the operating
system and applications, and connecting it to middleware, networks, and
storage.

## User provisioning

User provisioning is a type of identity management that monitors access
rights and authorization privileges. Provisioning is defined through
user objects, such as employees, vendors, contractors, etc. and user
attributes. Services provided might include email, access to a database,
or access to a network.

Configuring role based access control (RBAC) is an example of user
provisioning. RBAC is generally comprised of permissions, roles, groups,
and users.

A user is assigned to a group or groups, a group is assigned to roles
(read-only, editor, or administrator, for example), and a role is
comprised of permissions.

User provisioning is ofccess control (RBAC) is an example of user
provisioning. RBAC is generally comprised of permissions, roles, groups,
and users.ten managed between IT and human resources.

## Network provisioning

Network provisioning can include setting up a network to be accessed by
users, servers, containers, and IoT devices, among other things. In
todayâ€™s connected world, there are many different types of items that
are network consumers.

Network provisioning has frequently been used by the telecommunications
industry as a way to refer to providing a telecommunications service to
a user, including the required equipment and wiring. It may also include
service activation of a wireless environment for a user.


## Service provisioning

Service provisioning includes the set up of a service and managing the
data related to it. Service provisioning has applications in the
telecommunications industry, in setting up a service for a customer, as
well as with cloud infrastructure.


Tags:
```
#provisioning
```

Related:
```
* https://www.redhat.com/en/topics/automation/what-is-provisioning
```
